---
title: 35th Birthday
note: Surpriseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee
---

Hey kitty,

I’m sorry this is a complicated one, and I’m sorry if you feel sad today. I know it’s not so easy to just forget about our situation even for the day, but I really hope you can try. I hope this little archive project brings something special to you. I’ve done letters, I’ve done audio, I’ve done a funeral and I’ve done badly drawn sketches. I’ve even done (terrible) video. This year, thanks to the magic skill multiplier that is AI, I got a bit more ambitious (too ambitious?) and tried to put together this— a website! An archive. This year, I wanted to do something that doesn’t just remember today, but all of our todays, from our youngest moments of innocence to our heaviest moments of hurt. 

But all of it, all of it is celebration. All of it is a crazy shared life that we had and have and will have, with future notes, songs, videos, and experiences, even if it happens that the shape of our relationship changes a little.

I’m sorry you don’t feel special to me, but you are. You are so, so special to me, even if I lack the words or the spirit to find them. As I add to the archive, I re-read everything, and I remember. I really would have been such a different person without you.

The core of what I want for you hasn’t changed, it’s never changed. I want you to be happy. I just don’t know if I remain the one who can give that to you in the way that you want and deserve. But I want you to know that no matter what, you shouldn’t settle for less, and I will always be there to support you along that journey in any way that I can.

Plus, it’s too late. You can’t escape me. You’re part of me now.

From the bottom of my heart and with a whole lot of lovely kitty love, happy 35th birthday.