---
title: 3rd Year
note: where the tradition started
---
Hey Kitty Monster,

Amazing. It's been 3 years. Well, almost. I'm cheating by typing this out first, but I doubt that you'd want to spend the first 10 minutes of our 3rd-year-day together watching the Skype window go "Red Lebrun is typing…"

I'm not sure where to go with this letter. Should I recap some of my most amazing experiences with you, such as your two trips to the U.S to meet me? Should I elaborate on how I've finally become a braver person, able to stand up to my parents and for you? Should I somewhere mention the breakthrough that I've had on the religious/marriage front? There are so many ways to remember and think about those things, so maybe I'll take another direction and just talk about something else that I don't often, about our love and where this relationship is going.

These have been, doubtlessly, some of the most amazing years of my life. Probably the best three.
I'll admit I had some incredible struggles during this same period… But although we sometimes rocked the boat a little too hard, we're still here, strong, in love, and happy together. I don't know if I would have predicted that we'd make it to three years together, but I am incredibly happy that we put in the extra effort to go the extra mile and stayed together, even with long distance getting in the way.

This might sound really stupid, but although I've had dark thoughts about our future before, I've also recently had very optimistic thoughts about us, about a long term future for us. A future that I believe we can really make work if we both want and try to. I won't get ahead of myself of course, but it's encouraging, isn't it?

Anyway, here's to three years together, and with a bit of kitty magic, to our fourth.

With love, and kittily yours,
Your Sex Kitty.