---
title: 4th Year
note: tricksed you
---

Bittersweet 4th Anniversary.

As a child, I spent a lot of time in front of a computer screen.
A lot of light traversed the chasm between that monitor and me.
In the dark, you could look at the patterns of that light on my face, and tell that I was drawing.
You could see a glimmer in my eyes, as I exercised my imagination. See the streaks of red, blue, and green, as I crudely created "art" with my mouse.
You would have seen me smile a lot. You would have thought that I had found happiness in a computer screen. You would have been right, but you would have been wrong.

As a teenager, I spent a lot of time in front of a computer screen.
The light that is reflected on my face is far more colourful now. Bright flashes, sudden changes in illumination, streaks of color. A brow, often furrowed in concentration. Sudden bouts of soft swearing and elated grins. You would guess: computer games.
You would have seen me smile a lot. You would have thought that I had found happiness in a computer screen. You would have been right, but you would have been wrong.

As a college student, I spent a lot of time in front of a computer screen.
The light has dimmed. The games are still there, but their light is often muted, tempered, balanced with the dull white glow of a text document being written. Thousands of little black lines being created across the screen. So much focus, so much hard work. So many hours that sleep will never be able to claim back. But that look, that satisfaction when that little white window is full of black lines. That sense of accomplishment.
You would have seen me smile a lot. You would have thought that I had found happiness in a computer screen. You would have been right, but you would have been wrong.

And now, as a young adult, I spend a lot of time in front of a computer screen.
The light is very dim. The games are still there, the work is still there, but there's something else. It's dark now, a lot of the time. A slight reddish tinge, reflected on my face. You will see me shake my head, sigh in frustration, roll my eyes. You will see me cry. The light coming from the monitor is always moving, and the expression on my face with it.
You would have seen me frustrated a lot. You would have thought that I had found unhappiness in a computer screen. You would have been right, but you would have been wrong.

You would have been wrong, because you wouldn't have understood, just from looking at my face, that as I shook my head, it's because I couldn't believe how silly you looked on Skype at that moment. You would have been wrong, because you wouldn't have known that I sighed in frustration from the terrible joke you just made, yet thought you were so clever for making it. You would have been wrong, because you wouldn't have guessed that I had rolled my eyes at your refusal to go to sleep, even though it was already 5 am. You would have been wrong, because you couldn't ever have known that those tears came from watching an unbearably cute cat video that you shared with me.

You would have been wrong, but you would have been right.

You would have been right, because I had found a sort of unhappiness in a computer screen.
You would have been right, because I can't reach out to you and touch your face. You would have been right, because I can't hug you when you need me to. You would have been right, because seeing you on a screen is amazing, but it's not enough.

You would have been right, because today, on our 4th Anniversary of being together, I can't even look into your real eyes.

You are away from me for now, and this is wrong. But I believe, I know. We will make this right.