---
title: 7th Year
note: still hate all these things
---

Honestly? I hate so much about you. I hate traveling with you, I hate how you always win in our arguments, I hate how you’re so creative, I hate the way you talk to me, and I hate our quiet moments. The way we look in public together is just ridiculous. I hate how I can barely recognize who I am now compared to who I was before I met you. I basically can’t stand it when you bring up old shit we’ve been through, and it really pisses me off when you start asking me a ton of questions right before I go to sleep.

Sometimes, I want you to break up with me.

Happy 7th year.

Honestly? I love so much about you.

I hate traveling with you.
I basically can’t go anywhere in Singapore without reminiscing on where we’ve been and what we’ve done (including things we shouldn’t have done in places we shouldn’t have been). But I hate traveling without you even more. I could have breakfast in a place where I’m told you can almost touch the sun, take a trip towards the setting sun only to find that its resting place lies in an endless sea of fireflies, or sleep in a room built over the intersection of two rivers, cushioned by nature’s zephyrs… but feel no desire to visit any of these things. Not anymore. Not without you.

I hate how you always win our arguments.
It reminds me that as stubborn and as intelligent as I think I am, I am often wrong. It reminds me that I still have a lot of room to grow, and issues to overcome. It teaches me that logic is not a language of emotion, and that being right does not always mean that I have won.

I hate how you’re so creative.
I’m so jealous of your midas touch. I am a writer. I write. You are creative. You draw, paint, sculpt, imagine, plan, build. I am creation in thought. You are creation in action.

I hate the way you talk to me.
You know exactly what to say to me to defuse me. You know exactly how to take my funny jokes and make them just a bit funnier (what you call “actually funny”). You know how to make me laugh, and as evidenced by that night not too long ago, exactly how to make me completely break down and cry (in a good way). You talk to me like you know me. Maybe you do.

I hate our quiet moments.
As a writer, I hate how much we’re able to express to each other without the use of a single word. I hate our little naps, when we lie quietly by each other until we fall asleep. Each experience is a novel, written in the air, that I have never been able to capture in ink.

The way we look in public is just ridiculous.
You’d think we just got together. You’d think we were a newly attached, wide-eyed, honeymoon-period, over-the-top must-continue-touching-you kind of couple. How we basically haven’t taken an escalator in 7 years without hugging each other. How we haven’t gone a single day without a kiss, or two, or many many more.

I hate how I can barely recognize who I am now compared to who I was before I met you.
I don’t want to forget who I was. It’s an important part of me, one that I can look back on and feel so grateful to for having gotten with you. One that I can see changing, bit by bit, year by year. Becoming a less rigid person, one able to express himself more freely, to let go, to enjoy life and even bend the rules a little (sometimes).

I basically can’t stand it when you bring up old shit we’ve been through.
You just go on and on about our times together. In the US, in Singapore, in Japan, in Europe, in your house, in my hostel, at LASALLE… I love it. Until you tell me for the 50th time that you think about so-and-so everyday.

It really pisses me off when you start asking me a ton of questions right before I go to sleep.
This one, yeah, it really does. What? No one’s perfect.

Sometimes, I want you to break up with me.
I want to remember what it would be like to be without you. To say goodbye to everything that we’ve become. Everything that we’ve been, everything that we’ve done. To say goodbye to all the words we’ve invented, all the things we’ve created, all the memories we’ve imprinted. Everything. I want to realize how much of me is really “us”. I want to be devastated, just so I remember how much I love you.

It’s been seven years. Seven turbulent, long, but incredible years. And here we are.

Happy 7th Anniversary, love.