---
title: 9th year
note: remember that time I wore a suit to that Russian restaurant wtf so cringe
---

Happy 9th Anniversary

It’s honestly very difficult to write something creative and mind-blowing every year. As the years grow, so does the importance of the date.

From “it’s been a year!” to “wow, we’ve been together for five years”, to “can you believe we’ve been together for 9??” The system compels me to impress. As the numbers add up, so should the meaningfulness of the letter… or at least, that’s what tradition dictates.

But we’ve never been a traditional couple.

You’ve asked a lot from me over the years. Always more. A better listener. A more patient partner. Always qualities that I should want for myself. But you’ve never asked more for yourself (except that one semi-reasonable but infuriating thing, you know what it is).

You don’t need escalation. You value our shared meals of $3 chicken rice just as much today as you did when we first hung out. We don’t need flowers, chocolates, or anything else society tells us we should want for each other. We don’t need fancy dinners or other ways for our wallets to serve as proxies for our hearts. No, I love feeling like an outsider with you. I love how we dress up in fancier clothes for special occasions, but always feel like we’re just playing at luxury because we don’t belong there. Because we don’t need to belong there. We don’t need “the life” because we have our life. Our little, simple, complicated, amazing, 9-year-in-the-making life.

So this letter isn’t longer or grander than the others. It isn’t even more poetic or necessarily more meaningful. But it’s us today.

Little,
simple,
complicated,
and amazing.

Just us.