---
title: 10th Year
note: I went public with this one. I still respect you deeply, even if you don't feel it as much these troublesome days.
---

10th Year Anniversary

I’m sure that meeting someone later in life can be a beautiful experience. You get to know who you are and what you want. You have experience on your side. You are a mature soul seeking out another of its kind.

Falling in love when you’re young can be so much more complicated. Forget knowing what you want from the other person, sometimes you don’t even know what you want from yourself. All of the self-doubt, all of the early second guessing of yourself and your partner… The process of self-discovery is so much messier when someone else is intimately involved. But as you share values and learn from each other, you start to align on the core of not only who you want to be, but also who you are.

And the simple truth is that, at this point, I don’t know who I am without Nicole.

That’s not even hyperbole. I don’t know what life would have had in store for me if I hadn’t met her, but I know that it would have been vastly different. The “me” that you all know would not exist without her. You know us as separate people, and of course we are, but in some small way, I also see us as an indivisible “us”. 

If we were to break up today, I would just curl up and die. It would rip me apart mentally. What would I do? Where would I go? What questions should I ask myself, when I’m no longer sure who I am? We’re in this together now, come what may. Through good times and bad times.

So here’s some news:

I’ve proposed to Nicole.

She said “sureee” (and then “yes", after clarifying that this wasn’t a joke).

I don’t have a picture of the ring to share because I didn’t buy one. I didn’t bring her out to dinner, ply her with flowers or gifts, and I certainly didn’t propose at the top of a mountain in a foreign country.

I didn’t do any grand romantic gesture - not because I don’t believe in romance, but because I believe the heart of romance lies in being true to one’s self and to one’s partner. Neither one of us are big-event people. When we sit in expensive restaurants, we feel like impostors. We playfully navigate our surroundings, arm-in-arm and heart-in-heart. The restaurant is just a backdrop - we’re there to enjoy the food, but really, we’re there to enjoy each other.

There is beauty in tradition. Holding a ceremony in the same way that your parents held a ceremony can bring warmth and joy to a nostalgic heart. A traditional proposal can be such a cathartic, powerful moment for people who’ve started every single thought of marriage within the context of a ring, or on one knee.

I grew up traditional. I always thought I’d propose with a ring. I always thought it’d happen on one knee. I always thought a lot of traditional things, simply because I’ve never had them challenged.
I’ve learned a lot of things with Nicole, but perhaps undoubtedly the most important thing I’ve learned with her is how and when to unlearn.

At the end of the day, my commitment doesn’t need to be ratified in the form of compressed carbon on a loop of processed rare earth. There is value in the symbol, but we’re going to choose our own symbol, one that makes sense to us.

We’ve been together for exactly 10 years now. We’ve been through some amazing experiences. We’ve explored the world together through travel, and each other’s minds through conversation, and both of these activities have been equally exciting. We’ve gone through tough times, nearly breaking up on several occasions (for complex reasons that have ended some real marriages). But we pulled through. At the end of the day, we communicated. And we haven’t (and don’t) always see eye to eye, but we respect each other deeply. 

I cannot think of another intelligence I would rather spend the rest of my life with. Not as a husband supported by his wife, but as equal partners in every single way.