---
title: 11th Year
note: our love will always be our cat
---

If our love were a cat, with 11 years of life in it, it would be a lazy beast. It would be comfortable in its dominion of the house, most of its restless energy gone. It would drape the couch, a familiar puddle of fur in a familiar favourite spot.

But our love is not lazy. It is comfortable in its dominion of our minds, only because it no longer needs to prove itself over and over. Our love is not a demand but a choice- one we reveal in every little self-sacrificing action; our life put on hold for the greater purpose of serving another we see as deserving of love and respect.

Our love lacks restless energy because that energy is purposefully channeled. Every touch is intentioned. The words “I love you” may not punctuate the end of many sentences or even be heard for days, but when they are spoken, they are spoken fiercely. They reveal the brightly burning embers under the coal dust of everyday regularity. They do not ignite a fire in us only because the fire has never stopped burning.

Our love drapes the couch, fur glinting in the afternoon sun. When we stop moving, it is not because we lack the energy to run. It is because we have found peace in the quietness that is provided by our moments of dual solitude. We are inseparable, alone when we are together. And we contain inner worlds rich enough to live out our whole lives. The outer world is auxiliary.

If our love was a cat, it would be loved by our friends. Some will have seen its birth. Most will have seen its growth. Many may think they understand it.

Silly humans. They have no idea.