---
title: 12th Year
note: :\
---

Hey kitty… I’m finding it really difficult to write this letter. I haven’t been procrastinating just because I have work or other commitments - each of the three previous times I sat down to write, nothing much came out. I aborted one attempt after multiple failed starts. Aborted another after the tone of the letter naturally turned sour. Aborted the latest attempt just now because I wanted to write about what’s really on my mind, as potentially unpleasant as some of it might be.

The purpose of the anniversary letter is to celebrate the relationship. But I’m finding it a little bit hard to feel in a celebratory mood. The last few months have been tough on me. I’ve done my best to be open and vulnerable about my feelings, but I feel like my actions are being met more and more with impatience, with frustration, with delaying tactics, with often repeated and hollow-sounding promises. Now when I think of talking to you again, the only thoughts that run through my head are “has it been long enough since the last time? How will you take it? Will this just make you upset and push you away even more?”. I don’t like fearing you. I don’t need therapy to tell me that it’s an extremely unhealthy relational dynamic.

I wouldn’t want to memorialise in an anniversary letter any minor concerns or annoyances that I’m feeling in the moment. But I feel like that’s where we’re at. That for me to feel properly heard, I have to do something as drastic as this. So, I’m sorry, but this letter will be more bitter than sweet. I think it’s what we need right now. To clear the lines of communication. To be real.

So, here goes everything.

You must be so tired of hearing me talk about the imbalance in our power dynamic by now. I know it can be tempting to just sort of shut off and think “not this thing again” when it pops up, but it’s been popping up with increasing frequency and weight because it’s something I’m genuinely struggling with and hurt over. And it doesn’t seem to be moving in a direction of resolution. It felt like a small victory a few weeks ago when I asked you if you felt the power imbalance between us and you admitted that you did. And that’s great. I’m glad to hear of your self-awareness on this issue. But self-awareness without action leaves me in exactly the same situation that I started in.

I brought up simple examples of things you could start doing to show me you were committed to working on the problem: reading wait but why, working on the tattoo drawing, reading Homo Deus, writing that note with your perspective on our open status… those alone wouldn’t fix the power imbalance, but they would show me that you are willing to commit to clearly identified tasks that you know would help. I’ve given you time and space for you to initiate action. When nothing materialised, I tried a more active approach. On Jan 20, I told you before going to sleep that I knew you already had a lot on your plate, but that it would mean a lot to me if you followed through on some of the commitments you’ve promised me. To be very honest, at that point I was already not confident that what I said would make any difference. I prefaced my encouragement to you as gently and kindly as I could. I started with “it would mean a lot to me if you did this…” 

It’s been over three weeks. Having no follow up to that whatsoever says something quite important about the state of our relationship, whether you want to see it that way or not. It’s been over three weeks. What have you done? Have you even thought about it? If you have, it would really help if you at least tell me that you’re thinking about it, because from my perspective it just looks like another empty promise. You push me to take actions to help keep me on track like set reminders and make plans - where are your reminders? Where are your plans? Why should you be allowed to get upset at me not staying true to my word when your violations are so much more egregious? I’ve literally been waiting for years for you to take action. I’ve tried to entice you. I’ve gotten angry at you. I’ve been kind. I’ve been supportive. I’ve been harsh. I’ve given you time. All of these. Multiple times. Nothing. And not even a hyperbolic nothing, an actual, literal nothing.

If the power imbalance between us remains conceptual to you, this is what it looks like. Laid out as plainly as our history shows it to be. An open wound that has been festering for years, that you could start working to close with a single hour’s commitment. Yet I’ve spent more time chasing you to abide by your word than you have spent honouring it. And these things I’m chasing you to do are supposedly things that you already want to do. How much less influence do you think I would have if I tried pushing you towards things you find naturally unpleasant? Are we in this relationship as mutually respected partners, or am I just along for the ride for as long as I give you what you want? It’s not that I don’t recognise that you do amazing things for me. You’ve given me the best memories of my life. You’ve organised amazing surprise birthday parties for which you worked tirelessly hours upon hours. You’ve drawn amazing images and created beautiful objects of great sentimentality and workmanship. Without discounting any of those things, I still need to point out that none of those were things I wanted you to do for me. They were all things you wanted to do for me.

I’ve sacrificed so much for you. Rearranged my expectations and my boundaries to give you greater pleasure in recent experiences with Jos. I’ve suffered for your happiness. Let me be more precise, I’ve willingly chosen to suffer through unpleasantness, so that I could normalise the pain and give you what you wanted. That’s sacrifice. That’s effort. That’s love.

How much do I ask for from you? How much have you had to change your life for me to fit within it? Yes, you’ve always been a rock and I’ve molded myself around you, but am I slowly coming to understand that you are not unwilling but incapable of change for me?

I looked up the definition of resentment in the dictionary yesterday to see if it applied to my current feelings.

“Resentment is a complex, multilayered emotion that has been described as a mixture of disappointment, disgust, anger, and fear.”

No disgust, but the others… Yes to disappointment, to hearing you repeatedly fail to keep to your simple commitments. Yes to anger, built over days, weeks, and months of not having my few, rare desires met. And yes to fear, the fear to even broach this topic with you in the face of your decreasing patience. I’m disappointed, angry, and too scared to talk about it. I don’t want to even hear myself writing these words, but the description is accurate. I’m starting to resent you over this.

Relationships don’t need to be perfectly symmetrical in every way. I can be more of a giver than you. But it’s non-negotiable that there needs to be mutual respect.

Of course it’s not all bad. Our relationship isn’t in actual danger. I still love you deeply, and I know you do the same for me. We’re still at a place that we should be proud of, we’re still the best relationship I know. We still know how to create our own fun, we’ve still got each other’s backs, I still admire you and you still admire me. I still find you hot. You still find me cool (jokes). We’re still the best communicators we know. I just want to live up to our historical standard. I want things to feel like the way they used to.

But the thing is, things were never this way. But if we’re going to be happy in the long run, that will have to change. I sacrifice and compromise because you deserve that from your equal, your partner. Don’t I deserve that too?

Sorry for hijacking our 12th year note for this. But it belongs in our history, and I hope it leads to an amazing 13th one next year.