---
title: 14th Year
note: still can't believe you beat me at Divinity. Also, fuck Bairdotr.
---

Hey kitty,

I’m honestly a bit sick of your “Can you believe it’s been x time since” type questions. You know I’m not one to dwell on the past very much. Although when I do indulge, usually in the middle of some cleaning or digital purge, I get sucked in just as powerfully as you, reminisce just as hard, and possibly even beat you on nostalgia.

A lot of little things get lost to time, little words, little actions, little “jiups!” as you raise an invisible cup to scoop the little stars of my shoulders, little exclamations like “huggles!” as we acted like ill-fitting, slippery bodies on top of each other. To make ourselves feel better, we reflect that they no longer make us feel quite the same way, and we call it “growth” or “maturity”.

But it’s not, really, is it? Because if you put your lips against my cheek and I let out a stupid little “chuuu”, there’s still something unexplainably adorable about it. Or if you hug me and put your bare feet on top of mine, and I walk around the room with you, even walking across the room becomes a little adventure. And as much as you insist it’s fucking stupid, you’ll still swing your hand next to mine, finger extended, until I catch it with a dumb sound effect.

We’re not maturing at all, not when it comes to this. We’re just filing away our old favourites and creating new songs to vibe to, not wishing to forget, but content to revisit.

And we have so much to revisit: we’ve been to 10 countries together, went to (and came in) US national parks with car-sized trees, froze our socks off at a Swiss lake, ate at a bedouin’s house in the Atlas mountains…  but we also got betrayed by a trusted friend before you eventually proved yourself the stronger god (not better, just stronger). We travelled from planet to planet and deep in mines, and built the dumbest-named farm together with demonic-inspired chickens.

We’ve hugged. So very much. Traveling without traveling at all, safety and comfort in stillness and warmth. Little moments that accumulate in their absence (rare) and their presence (plentiful).

So, “Can you believe it’s been 14 years since we got together?”

Happy 14th Anniversary, kitty.