---
title: 15th Year
note: re-reading this hurt. I remember thinking that things did not change substantially after it. The you, now, working on noise patterns for Quien, that you is who I wanted and needed at the time. But life got so much more complicated in between.
---

Hey kitty.

It’s our 15th anniversary today.

15 years is kind of nuts. When we first got together, you were a teenager. I was barely more than that, and in many ways due to my upbringing, very much still a teenager too.

I still remember John turning around and seeing us holding hands. I like how he didn’t say anything, but I wonder what he thought. It was a sweet moment.

I remember how, even years into the relationship, you’d comment on train rides that we must still look like a new couple to other people, because of how affectionate we were with each other.

I remember how hard we laughed when we got stoned for the first time in the US on that one-hitter. How your brain somehow went to the idea of my face looking like “honest Ken” and how thoroughly we lost it. It didn’t matter why we were laughing, just that we were.

Those were great times, but also more innocent ones.

Things were far from perfect, of course, and the problems of then were just as important as the problems of now, but perhaps just… simpler? 

I feel that as we got older and became more multifaceted and complicated people, the scope of our problems together also grew in complexity. We’ve both had to learn to grieve some of the things we expected from each other or for our futures.

The point is, life got complicated and we’ve both had to make sacrifices for each other, including ones we never thought we’d have to pay. We got complicated. And while yes, it does kind of suck, it’s also… reality. For all of our own intellectual knowledge that no one gets to live a perfect life, it feels different when you live that knowledge out. But it’s normal.

And it’s easy to lose perspective on the past, as well as the future. So I wanted to take today to remember the past a little, to celebrate some of our wins. Since this is my letter, let me share what I consider those to be.

First, thank you for seeing the potential in me. I absolutely was naive when you met me, a sheltered soul with a bunch of weird baggage I didn’t even know I was carrying. While I know my charming young looks did a number on you at first, you stayed because you realized there was more to me than that, and it’s that deeper layer that you fell in love with (I hope. Otherwise, getting older like this as a trophy guy, I’m fucked). You took that potential and you introduced me to your way of seeing the world. Some of which I still think is nonsense, sure, but a lot of which opened up my own ways of seeing and being.

I can look back at my life and see where it might have gone without you. I can see the distance between those possibilities and this reality. Even with all of our challenges, I am, by far, the version of me I’d rather be, and the difference between current me and possible thems isn’t small, but vast.

And that’s something I’ll owe you forever, no matter what happens, until my death. I think there’s something beautiful about being able to make a mark in someone’s life like that. Not just a specific moment, or even stretch, to be remembered, but a fundamental shift in how life is lived. You’ve helped me become, and be, me. (I’m not saying you did ALL the work, of course, I also did a lot of heavy lifting, so fuck you and suck my dick.)

You know, our wedding— that really still doesn’t mean anything much to me. Still just paper. But the strands of our lives are truly intertwined in the spirit of whatever weddings are supposed to represent. I love you, with the full depth of that word. I care about you, what happens to you, your safety, your health, your future, more than family (I know, not a ton coming from me), more than any other friend. It’s important to me that you live a great and fulfilling life, and it’s important that I help you achieve that.

I love you now, and can say with absolute certainty, that in many ways I always will.

But now we turn to the future. And while I would like this letter to be a moment of celebration, it’s a bit more complicated than that.

I still see the potential of us, in us, and want to see us make it through. But it’s precisely because I care that I need to be critical, that you will feel uncomfortable with some of the things I have to say next.

Our life doesn’t seem to be doing so poorly. We’re both content on the day to day. Work keeps us occupied, we spend our spare time together laughing together at shows and playing occasional computer games side-by-side. We fight less often than we used to. And when we do, we fight less furiously. These things can’t be discounted. We’ve grown, and achieved some major victories along the way that we don’t celebrate enough. But… our growth and ways of coping might also help hide issues underneath, smooth out our slow decline so it doesn’t look so rough from the outside. And by outside, I mean even when we, idly, choose to look at ourselves.

I think we’re having a very slow communication breakdown. Almost invisible in the day-to-day, but clear in the year-to-year. And communication is too important to ever be a casualty of time.

This isn’t the life I wanted for myself. I can’t imagine it’s the life you wanted either. We’ve reached a point of seeming stability, but I don’t want to look back at us and ever think “… is that all there is?” I’m learning it’s healthy to detach and follow my own interests, pursue my own growth, but still, I can’t help but feel… there’s got to be more to us than this.

I don’t know if you feel the same way, but I don’t feel like I can share all the honest or unfiltered thoughts with you. Somewhere along the way, I got used to the small white lie that keeps away the scary fight. The lie of “no” if you ask me if something I can tell you dislike turns me on. The lie of “yes” if I forgot to sanitize my hands after touching something small and inconsequentially “dirty”. None of these are important by themselves, but they’ve conditioned a state where it’s easier to keep the peace than to be myself with you, the one person I wish more than anything I could be myself with. I sometimes find myself rethinking actions or decisions based on your potential anger. It’s good, of course for me to think of you and be considerate of my partner, but this feels less like consideration and more like fear. Even here, now, I’m scared that these minor things I was just honest with you about will come back and haunt me, potentially for years. Maybe not spoken, but I’ll feel your eyes narrow when I touch something. I’ll feel you hold your tongue, but not your feelings.

I try as best as possible to accept the imperfect you, but it often feels like you hold me to a higher, more impossible standard. There’s little forgiveness, there’s “next time, don’t…” there’s no sighs and “it’s ok” there’s “why did you??”

I’m absolutely by no means perfect at being kind, but I’m exhausted by being the one who always extends the kindness while receiving a fraction in return. I’m tired of saying “it’s ok” to your fuckups while you reply “why are you so stupid” to mine. I’m by no means completely selfless but I’m exhausted by accommodating your little moments of selfishness.

I understand life stresses you more. Work drains you. Family disappoints you. Potential loss haunts you. You have so much more on your plate, and it is absolutely no fault of your own that you find yourself pressured. I don’t, and can’t, understand what that feels like. But I know it’s a heavy burden, and so I try to be patient and understanding as far as I can be.

I understand partners aren’t supposed to meet at 50/50, but share the load according to their capabilities. But how many years am I supposed to remain the 60 to 80? My whole life? I can’t sustain that.

How many more times must I clear absolute mental space to help you with your work, but feel tuned out as soon as I’m talking three sentences into something I care about that you don’t?

I’m hopeful that some of the pressures will lift, with time, but life goes on regardless, and I don’t want to live in hope of a timer that might never end, or even get worse. I can’t change life. Neither can you. But we can change how we respond to it. It’s not easy, but I sincerely believe it’s one of the most important skills we can master.

I have the luxury of time to work on myself. You don’t. I understand the desire to be relaxing when not working. But I think this work, emotional work, is in the long term more important than any job. For my sake, yes, but more so for your own.

I don’t think we can solve all of these things right away. I think they’re deeper problems, complex problems. And while I feel some relief in expressing them now, I know it would be stupid of me to expect things to change just because I’ve spoken up. 

But I don’t want this message to die as just another message. I don’t want this to just be me venting. I want it to go somewhere, help with something, flip that switch that makes the light of us, if not bright, at least increase in glow. I mean… 15 years. If not now, then when?

I want to be able to be fully myself around you. To feel more seen and invested in by you. And I want to see you more, too. The you that shows up full of life when we do stupid or fun stuff with our friends. The you I hear about in your dumbfuck interactions with Nathan. The creative, social you that’s hidden behind all the work. I miss the you that I’m sure you miss too.

And also… I want you to love me actively again, to be missed more than Diablo.

We’ve been together 15 years. That’s a real achievement, a lifetime sized achievement that no one can take away from us. It proves we have something special. Let’s not forget that it took hard work to get us here, and that we should put in the work to bring us further, and happier, for the next decade and more.

Right now, as a dish, life is a bit bittersweet. And I don’t trust our current skills in the kitchen. But I trust in us, if we care enough to learn.