---
title: What I will miss about my kitty
note: Seems we thought about this way back when
---

What I will miss about my kitty.

Hey meow meow,

So, I expect this will be a bit of a sobering experience, but a good one. It's true that maybe I don't spend enough time thinking about the good things that we have going. But I do, and I realize what an amazing relationship we have, even if it goes bad once in a while. So as you requested, here are a few of the things that I treasure most about our relationship, and what I will most definitely miss about you if we ever break up.

-Never a dull moment: I've never been bored with you, ever. It may not always be good news, but there's always news with you. I haven't lived the most exciting social life since I graduated from Lasalle, and in a way, I kind of live socially through you. You have that kind of social life that I never had, and in a way I get to experience what it's like being friends with the kind of people that I might not want to get close to. But now that I am closer to them, it's quite an experience, and has allowed me to change how I see things and people. I'm super grateful for that, and I don't know that I'll be able to have it again if we don't make it, so I will miss that.
-Loyalty: You're really the most loyal person I know. You've made your share of mistakes, and even did some dumb things after getting with me (like showing John your underwear at Zirca), but I never doubted that your intent was anything close to disloyal. I'm not saying that I don't believe you've ever had doubts, especially when you were feeling down, but through it all, I know that you would never, ever cheat on me, and I'm glad that I was able to find someone who feels just as strongly as me about this core issue.
-Honesty: You are so crazy honest (with me) that it sometimes comes across as a bad thing. Now don't get me wrong, I am also incredibly honest, but sometimes the way you approach things without sugarcoating them at all can be a bit abrasive. On the one hand, it can be tiresome and troubling, yes, but on the other... I know that I can trust you, and that you'll tell me everything that I want to hear, and everything that I don't, but need to. I know a lot of people, myself included, that would rather keep certain things to themselves just to avoid the trouble of having to deal with them, but you're not one of those people. I can really appreciate that. I'm not saying that it's the best approach however... a little balance can be good- but I know that if it's something that matters, even if it puts you in a bad light, you'll tell me.
-Our kittyness: Obviously I'm going to miss everything that makes us kitties. I'm not stupid, and I know that it is sometimes just a shield that we put up (or at least, that I put up) to help me cope with things, to give myself a bit more time. It's easy not to talk about serious issues when the only thing that's happening in coversation is noms and cuddles and wuggles. But the kittyness is -not- just a shield. It's really a huge part of who were are together, part of our shared identity, and I love every last bit of it with every piece of my heart. I will never, ever forget our kittyness, what it means to us, and how much each huggle that we had means to me.
-Your face (and body): I've said this a million times, and alluded to this issue in probably every single serious letter I've written to you, and probably will continue to do so in the future- I find you attractive (sexy attractive, not just cute attractive), and I will miss your looks if we ever break up. You are doubtlessly the most attractive girlfriend that I've ever had, and I will miss that.
-Your artistic ability: I'm really super impressed with what you can do, aesthetically. You touch photoshop, it's gold. You touch paper clay for nearly the first time, you create an amazing looking wand. I have no doubt that anything you put your mind to doing artistically, you will do amazingly. One of the reasons that I push you to do more graphic design work is because I know that you can do truly great things there, and that I just want to see more of your work. A lot of times when I'm walking around and see something artistic, I think to myself: "Nicole could do better if she wanted to try".
-Your dedication to me: I DON'T take it for granted. I really appreciate just how much you care for me, and I'm impressed by the number of chances that you give me on issues in which I clearly fall short, again and again.