---
title: "The Letter"
note: It took me 3 months to write this letter - from 22 August to 22 November.
---

Hey kitty,

First of all, I am really, so so sorry. I never wanted (or want) to hurt you, and I know this does. I know that nothing I say will help to take away the hurt, and the only thing I can do is to let you live with it, and be there for you when you need me at any step of the way. I will also try to change my actions, to make you feel more secure, to show that I still actively want to be here with you every day.

Reassurances

Before I go deeper, I want to start by offering the following concrete re-assurances:
- You are my life partner. The person I want to build a shared life, home, and future with. That's fundamentally different from any other connection I might have, now or ever.
- Our time together is always my priority, and I will never again encroach on that to make time for anyone else. I will only write to her in the gaps I have available, or at times that we agree to. If you ever feel I'm prioritizing communication with her over being present with you, I want you to tell me, and I promise to listen without judgment. You were justified in feeling terrible when I simply informed you of the phone call rather than talk to you about it first, and that’s not behaviour I intend to repeat. 
- If you want to know something specific, I'll answer honestly. The only exception would be if you're asking for graphic details that I genuinely believe would cause unnecessary pain without adding clarity - and if that happens, I'll explain why I think that question might hurt more than help. I also want to share from my personal experience that with Jos, wanting to have the full picture was what I thought would offer me the most reassurance… but it did the opposite. I know it may sound “incorrect”, but I can assure you that there is peace in ignorance — not in being lied to, but in actively choosing how much you want to know. I’m certain there are things you’ve not told me, not because you wouldn’t answer honestly if I did ask, but just because I’ve decided not to ask. There is genuine peace in that. Even in the last few days, I have had some questions about timeline and events over the last few years with Jos, but I’ve chosen to forgive and move forward rather than try to understand everything. I hope you can peace along the same path.
- Any major life decisions (moving, finances, long-term goals, etc) remain ours and only ours to make together.
- I won’t make any commitments to Melina that could affect our life together (even in small ways) without first discussing them with you.
- This relationship exists in letters and rare visits. It won’t interfere with our daily life together.
- I won’t and don’t want to repeat any of our shared experiences with her or with anyone else I might ever meet. There is a sacredness to our history that I want to keep just for us.
- Overall, this can’t and won’t replace what we have: the depth of our daily intimacy, our shared life decisions, and our physical closeness.

First brush with non-monogamy

I know this has been deeply unfair to you - you didn’t ask for non-monogamy, and when I proposed to you, you didn’t think or could even imagine that this would ever be a problem for us. Worse, you thought you’d already gone through the challenge of negotiating an open relationship, and that those days, and concerns, were behind you. I know they must have been really painful the first time around too. All those years back, it was so painful for me to consider that perhaps I wanted a life that held more than just you. And it was so painful also, just the act of telling you about it. I was so, so scared.

But you didn’t judge me, you held me, you talked to me, you walked me back from the edge by asking the question “Is that what you want? That I could go and be in someone else’s arms?”

At the time, I didn’t want that. You showed me what non-monogamy could look like, and at the time, it scared me more to lose you than to want what I wanted, so I stepped back. I remember us both, crying in this room, trying to navigate this thing that felt larger than life. I remember your honesty and generosity in how you told me that you wanted to give this to me, but that you didn’t know if you could. The reason we’re still together is because of the way you showed me compassion on that day, and how you talked to me. And I meant it when I said that non-monogamy was not what I wanted. I really did.

But… the feelings I had then have not survived the passage of time. It is sometimes a horrible truth, but people change in expected and sometimes unexpected ways. This was unexpected for me. I developed feelings for Melina, and I realized I want to explore what it means to have meaningful connections with more than one person. I know this represents a change from what we agreed to, and I take full responsibility for that. I don’t feel like my desire comes from dissatisfaction or restlessness with what we have (though there is some), but rather from a perspective of expanding myself to what I want my one life to look like.

I want to share how my thinking about love has changed, and I'm hoping you'll hear me out even if you disagree. You don’t need to agree with anything. I just hope in this letter that you can find a way to put aside your pain for a moment so that we can at least understand each other better.

Personal philosophy on love

To me, loving someone now means: letting them be themselves in any way that they want, giving them the ultimate freedom of making their own choices for their own life. Being privileged to share in their life, to get to witness what they do. To offer guidance without control, to want presence without being entitled to it. To know that of all possibilities out there, someone has made, and is making, the active decision to spend their precious time and attention on you. To feel secure enough to share honest words, and to provide security through chosen actions. Imperfect as my love for you has been, can you see how I do try to embody this ideal? And even though now deeply painful, I hope you see that my current honesty is an attempt to better line up my actions with my values. I chose to tell you about Melina, and with a little more time, about the cheating. I chose to tell you about the trip, even though I knew it would cause even more division between us. We’ve both lied and delayed various truths in efforts to protect some of our selfishly hurtful desires from one another… but isn’t that just so exhausting? I’m not saying we need to share everything with each other, but I hope we don’t need to be scared to share things that affect us both, and that we can learn to be open with each other’s uncomfortable needs and wants. And my truth right now is, I still love you deeply. But I also care about someone else, and because you’re important to me, I won’t hide it from you.

The upcoming trip

I know that my desire to go on this trip with her directly seems to undercut some things I just said. And it does, I know this. I know the wiser thing to do would be to postpone our visit, to do some therapy together, to give it more time to work this out.

But I also need you to understand what it would mean to cancel this: it would feel like making myself small once again after having found something that I want to not be small for - something that I’ve been keeping buried in some form or other over a quarter of my life. I’ve finally found the courage to do something for myself that stands in direct opposition to what you want, and I’m scared that if I don’t see it through, I won’t know if I’m able to. The timing sucks. I know. For years, I’ve filtered many decisions through the lens of making you comfortable. I carried guilt for wanting to meet friends, for wanting to form new friendships, for wanting things to meet the pace of my own life. When my choices made you uncomfortable, I reconsidered them. I've been so afraid of hurting you that I've consistently betrayed myself. I framed it to myself as being generous and kind, but that generosity and kindness started feeling like a trap after you pushed the boundaries with Jos, and the recent discovery of the Jos betrayal just made me feel like even my most fundamental need for security didn’t matter as much as your need for self-determination. That’s not an equal partnership, and unfortunately you demonstrated that to me in the worst possible way.

This trip isn't ultimately about Melina - she's the catalyst, not the cause. It's about proving to myself that I can follow through on something I want even when it costs us both something. If I cancel now because you're in pain, I'll have learned nothing. I'll still be the person who sacrifices what matters to him to manage your emotions. And that person might resent you, but will certainly resent himself, until it becomes unbearable.

I'm not asking you to be happy about this. I'm asking you to understand that my healing requires me to stop waiting for the 'right time' that never comes. There will never be a convenient time to choose myself when choosing myself causes you pain. If there are specific boundaries that you want between us that would make you more comfortable, we can continue talking about those. I do want to show you that I’m willing to sacrifice for you, but if the conflict is that anything about this at all makes you permanently uncomfortable, I can’t sustainably meet you at that level.

This is a period of instability, and we’re both experiencing a lot of pain. We’re both trying to work through it, and we’re both making mistakes in how we handle it -  you with your occasional snide remarks and impossible questions and comparisons, me with my repeated failure to let you share your pain about my betrayal without bringing it back to my own pain. But I agree that these shouldn’t be mistakes that contradict or justify each other. They’re both painful truths that need to coexist. I shouldn’t be minimising or defending my actions based on your actions. “What you did” and “what I did” are separate conversations that both deserve their full time to be heard and to heal from.

Taking responsibility

In terms of how I should take responsibility and face consequences for my actions:
- I know I said this a bunch of times already and I know you understand and appreciate it, but I just want to put everything here again in writing. The first aspect of me facing consequences is my sharing with you of what happened between Melina and I. I’m not saying that just telling you absolves me of guilt, but I do genuinely think that it was something very difficult for me. It made my position with you much more challenging, I knew that it would hurt you tremendously and I was scared of causing you that pain, not just scared of the consequences. But I knew that you deserved honesty and that if we were going to heal from this, we both deserved to know the truth going forward. Even if that truth gave you a justified reason to see this as a dealbreaker and walk away. I didn’t want us to start to heal from an easier place (for me), if that easiness was built on a lie. 
- You’re totally justified in wanting me to face a range of consequences, ranging from:
    - emotional consequences of me feeling pain, guilt, and shame, comparable to what you’ve felt. And I have. I know I’ve not done a good job of expressing that so far, because I’ve been clouding my guilt with my anger. But like said above, that’s something I want to do better moving forward. The only thing I can do now is to point back to what I wrote for myself in my private notes before any of this came to light, to show you that I was already struggling. I wrote:  “Is my life changing? Is this the start of a more authentically lived life?  It feels like an impossible choice, and the scary part is that I can’t even have the discussion without the discussion itself being a choice I can’t unmake.  Do you deserve someone monogamous that only wants you? Do I deserve a partner that understands my nature?  The answer to both questions seems to be yes, which means… we need to give up our happiness together to get what we deserve?  I can’t choose for you. I don’t know how to choose for you.  All I can do is lie. And hope that somehow, the happiness we find in the meantime is worth it.  I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry.”  And another note later:  “The lying sucks. It sucks less by being temporary. But I was lying to myself before, about what I would accept as enough. It hurts to hurt you, but not more than it hurts to live in a state of hurt myself.”  I know those words aren’t enough to prove anything going forward. But I do hope that they give you at least a little glimpse into how I was already struggling with emotional consequences, and I continue to struggle with them still. I lied to you about intimacy with Melina. I violated the boundaries we had about what our relationship was. And I made decisions about our relationship without your consent. I know it’ll take a long time for us to rebuild that trust, and this period will last for as long as you need it to without me trying to rush you or feel like I’ve done “enough”. That’s your choice and your timing that I need to adhere to.
    - You are also justified in me facing relational consequences: it would be within your right to ask me to not see Melina again, or to stop talking to her, like I tried to do with Jos. And the fact that you’re not doing that is not something I take for granted. Even though now I’d once again be ok with you seeing Jos, it took me a lot of work over years to get there, and you’re also right that me being ok with it is in accordance with my personal philosophy, not yours. You’re right that we’re different people, and that you, even in philosophical disagreement to it, are offering me this freedom… it does mean something, and it does speak to your desire to still want me to be happy. I shouldn’t, and now don’t, take it for granted.
    - And finally, you’re justified in expecting future transparency from me. I think this one at least we are already the most aligned. But even this, I’m not saying I did a great job. I still held some things back from you, I didn’t correct my lies right away after meeting her, and when confronted I still attempted to trickle-truth you in ways that were manipulative about our connection. I know it doesn’t make it right, but I did after further consideration of my actions (and, like it or not, advice and a push from from Melina) come clean sooner rather than later. As expressed at the beginning of this letter, I will continue to be honest whenever you need it from me, and I understand that’s the only way we can rebuild. I understand that my lying to you, whether out of fear, out of selfishness, or out of a false sense of “protecting you”, none are worth robbing you of your agency to make the choices you need for your peace and your life. I hope I’ve at least shown that I am willing to commit to honesty even when it’s uncomfortable for me and weakens my position. I won’t hide, or minimise, any contact with Melina going forward, and I’ll check in with you more regularly if anything needs to be talked about. 
- I know that I wrote really hurtful letters criticising your secrecy while also keeping my own secrets, and that does make me a hypocrite. The fact that I planned to tell you does lessen this a little, but it doesn’t make it right. I’m sorry I hurt you so deeply for betraying me whilst hiding my own betrayal. I’m still not sure if it would have been better to let out everything at once, as that would have been a lot, but at least it would have been more honest? I really don’t know. 
- If something happens that affects our relationship, or my relationship with Melina, I commit to talking to you about it within 24 hours, not when it becomes easier for me. I want to own my part of the communication breakdown between us. I lied because I was afraid of your reaction. I've spent years managing your insecurities and jealousy, and I convinced myself that if I was just careful enough, I could have some freedom without causing you pain. That was wrong. Not just the lying, but thinking I could manage your emotions by controlling information when you deserve the full truth.  I also lied because I was angry. Angry about years of inequality. Angry that you had freedom I didn’t, and that I didn’t think you were actively trying to extend that freedom to me. I know now that that’s partially on me - for not bringing it up more often, or when it started to feel more real for me. You should have had the opportunity to deal with my change at the same pace that I was, not just learning all about it explosively and then having this rushed sequences of events thrown onto you. You don’t deserve that. I know that a big part of my pain with Jos was exactly that- feeling rushed in having to modify my boundaries, and now I’m doing the same thing to you. I need to own that my resentment led me to violate your trust rather than address the resentment directly.  I'm working on understanding why I chose deception over difficult conversations. I'm working on becoming someone who can be honest even when it's scary. I do still think that there’s an asymmetry in the power/fear gradient between us, and yes, there are things I think we need to seriously work on to remove that imbalance, but I can’t blame you for it entirely when I also have contributed to the pattern through withholding my emotions and information from you. 
- You said that you don’t want to feel alone in trying to repair us, and I agree. We both need to put in work. Even if right now your “work” just looks like processing quietly, I shouldn’t downplay that you’re really trying. I’m also still processing the hurt that was done to me, but I think I also can heal faster than you can. And so I should put the extra energy I have into proving to you that I really am here to stay, and that I actively want to. If you don’t have anything specific you want me to do right now there’s no pressure to come up with things, but if ever you do, please write them to me and I’ll commit to a weekly check-in to show you how I’ve been working on it. Honestly, your guidance in this will really help. I can try to do self-driven things that show my commitment, but having tangible targets that directly address what you find important will make it easier for you to measure my progress also.

Changing needs/desires

It’s widely accepted today that relationships need to have significant compromises, but why is that presented as an inflexible truth, as opposed to just… one way of being together? I once believed that monogamy was the only way. Then as I aged and experienced more of life, my definition broadened to believe that monogamy + sexual freedom was a better way. Now it simply expands further along the same lines.

I have loved you for nearly half of my life. It hasn’t always been easy or fun, but that’s what separates infatuation from love - the commitment to genuinely continue trying, even when things get hard. Not just from sunk cost fallacy, but continuing to choose you actively every day even when feeling down, betrayed, or unseen, because you continue to provide something essential to my life. Your energy, your laugh, the depth of your thoughts, the efforts you put into re-inventing yourself and pushing yourself forward through your own pain, the stupid things you do that make me laugh and the intelligent things you do that make me look at you again with old eyes that see, and love, parts of you anew.

I've realized I want us both to have more freedom in our relationship. I know I'm partly motivated by wanting this for myself with Melina, and I'm trying to be honest about that mixed motivation rather than pretending this is purely philosophical. But Melina is just an example, I do genuinely believe in the bigger message. I want to give you greater freedom AND I want that greater freedom for myself because that’s what love means to me. That’s what I mean by being authentic.

I’ve slowly moved towards stopping trying to exert any control over you, because I’ve felt what that life looks like, and I don’t want it. Even during the first time around with Jos, when I tried to use the power of boundaries to be more selfish for myself, to protect myself, it ended up causing us both more pain. I wish it could have played out differently, that I could have learned the lesson differently, but in the end… seeing how it helped me explore more deeply some uncomfortable parts of myself, I honestly don’t regret it.

The only way that I can truly stop you from hurting me at all, ever, is to let you go. To let you be truly free. To have sex with those you feel desire for, to have feelings for those you’ve grown to care for that way. And if, with all that freedom, you still choose to spend the precious time that you have alive with me… well that means knowing that I matter more to you than anyone or anything else, that with the entirety of life for you to choose from, you would choose me. The flip side of that freedom is knowing that if you wanted to, you could leave. Without direct consequence from me. It would hurt me, yes, of course it would, but if you wanted to go, I would want you to go. Because I trust that you’re capable of making your own adult decisions, and I want you to be happy. I never want to be your cage, only work on myself to create in me a warm enough place that you decide to curl up and stay for a lifetime.

But of course, I’m not proposing pure relationship anarchy. I’m not saying either of us should suddenly stop caring entirely about what the other thinks or feels. Decisions that affect both of us should still be made together. Practical things, like using protection if seeing someone else. It’s not about forcing a rule, but about how an accidental STD could greatly impact both partners’ health over the long term, or even permanently. And emotional things, like how if one of us starts feeling like a specific behaviour is painful, they should be able to bring it up and discuss how to proceed together with re-assurances and mutual effort.

I know I can’t make you understand the world the way I see it just by talking about it. I only got to where I am because of extensive reading, introspecting, writing, exploring, hurting, and healing. And even after all this, I failed in the most catastrophic way.

And I’m not saying that my idea of love is better, just that it’s the one I’ve arrived at based on my life and my experiences. But I do hope that me continuously modelling it, offering it, and attempting to improve it can show you that even if our definitions of love never fully overlap, there are healthy parts of my philosophy that perhaps you might want to consider adapting for yourself.

Appreciation and honesty

For example, I really do appreciate that you’re not asking me to stop talking to Melina. I know that’s something that costs you to give. I know you know how much it costs and I believe you pay it anyway because I attempted to make you lose it with Jos, even if unsuccessfully. That’s incredibly selfless of you, to an extent that I honestly find a little surprising. I know that when you were talking to Jos, I eventually asked you to end contact after you repeatedly crossed boundaries we'd agreed on. With Melina, I also crossed boundaries, ones that I knew from the very beginning were wrong. I didn’t go to Finland with any plan to break my commitments to you, but it would also be lying to say that I didn’t put myself in a situation where such things could start and develop.

So please don’t think I take this for granted, I see it, and I see you, and I thank you for it. Having been on both sides of this equation, I shouldn’t satisfy myself with the excuse that you hurt me this way before. I should do better.

I know I wasn’t fully honest with you from the very start, and yes, you did have to pull increasing amounts of the truth out of me. I was, and am still, so scared. But I am being honest because I want to show you that this is something I believe can be navigated. And I want you to love me for who I am, not for a version of myself that might make you feel safer, but is untrue.

To be completely known is so scary, because if I am completely known…
If I am completely known, and rejected by someone who I trust completely, then…
What does that say about who I am discovering myself to be?

But if I am dishonest to keep the peace, then you would feel secure and sleep next to someone who isn’t me.
You deserve to know who I really am and what I really want so you can make the right choices about your own life, and our shared one. My dishonesty took that choice away from you, and I'm sorry.
 Our past

I don’t want our relationship to survive on the weight of the past alone, but I also don’t think the past should count for nothing in the present complicated moment. All of the places that we’ve been in the world, and more importantly all of the places that we’ve explored in each other’s minds, they do mean something. Something permanent, something great, something as valuable in my past as in my future. You’ve changed me, permanently, and even if we can't find a way forward together I will always carry a large part of you within me.

But I so deeply, desperately, want you to continue on this path with me. Our past is not more important than our present, but it is a testament to what we can overcome together when we decide to try. 15 years later, we are not the people that we were when we first decided to join our lives together. We’re not even the same people that we were 5 years ago when we got married. Our perspectives have developed, our bodies have changed, your tolerance for cringe went even further down, while my sense of humour got so much better (as did my comedic timing and gift for attempting to introduce levity in the wrong places).

I don’t think we’ll be the same people anymore in the next 5 years, or the 5 years after that, or the 5 after that. But the 15 years behind us helps me believe that we can still find ways to be there for each other in all of the important ways, despite our differences.

Do you remember how, in our early years, I had an unnamable fear that held me back from fully committing? The fear that committing meant “like this, forever” and breaking up meant “nothing ever the same again”? You talked to me about it, and convinced me that we could change together. That really was a lightbulb moment, a major *click* that gave me confidence to move forward with you more wholeheartedly. And we did prove it in action. Our lives have changed so much since then, the one constant being:
our mutual desire to work through it.

The biggest challenge

I know this might be the biggest shift yet, the largest hurdle. And perhaps it feels like:

“Is this it?” 
Something bigger than you’d ever thought you need to give.
Something that would require a shift within yourself that feels immovable.

And maybe it is immovable. Maybe it really is too much. And maybe that means that we end.
That would gut me. And you. And change so many things in both of our lives that it would forever mark a before and after.
But it would be honest. And it would respect that we both have grown into people that will always love each other but not be able to remain within the same kind of love.

Or maybe it’s not immovable.
And maybe we discover that for the sake of someone we love, we can shift in unexpected directions. Like most significant shifts of meaning in life, it won’t be easy. But we overcame the problem of my religion, or my not knowing if I wanted kids, of your anger issues, of my parents’ disapproval, of the first opening up of our relationship, of greater independence from each other, of porn, of my challenge with commitment, of Jos. How many of these did we also think were immovable issues before we moved them, by hurting and healing back stronger, together?

I don’t know what your greatest fear around this is, but from your questions, it feels like it might be the fear of replacement? That if I develop feelings for someone else, that will take away from my feelings for you. And I know it feels like a perfectly reasonable fear, because I felt it for most of my life, including not even that long ago with Jos. And perhaps worse, it feels like an incredibly real fear to you because you experienced it yourself for Jos, unsure if our relationship was worth fighting for in the face of this new, attractive, shiny thing full of potential but empty of lived experience and pain.

But even this lifelong fear isn’t the same any more, not for me. At the time, things were difficult for me because my emotions lagged behind my reason. I rationally wanted you to be free to do what you wanted, but also required the emotional protection of re-establishing control in case things went beyond my aspirational boundaries. I wanted you to be free, but felt the weight of that freedom as something that pushed me down. Now, my emotions have caught up with my reasoning. And while I know that this is personal growth to me, I also recognize that my growth is creating pain for you, and that's a serious problem. But… it also has some aspects I think are beneficial for us:

Before I found out about your betrayal, you already started putting Jos back on the table. When I found the book and you told me some little truths, when you asked to party with him again… these are actions that once would have triggered me and caused me to spiral in anxiety. But I was able to look at your reconnection genuinely not with jealousy but curiosity. That reaction drove something home for me. The message that upon revisiting these once traumatic emotions, they truly have matured and changed, from fear, jealousy, and control to just… acceptance. The betrayal complicated all that, but the lessons I had learned in the meantime were still true. I had grown. And now that I’ve had enough time for even that betrayal to settle, I am at peace with letting you live your life your way.

And Nathan - despite the initial conflation of your situation with him into the whole big mess, I think I proved something in how I handled it eventually, proving that my words about letting you have your freedom were more than just words.  I am not entitled to any of your life, I just want to be a good partner that you know you can talk to safely. And if you want to continue talking, it’s because I’ve earned anything you want to share through trust, rather than control.

Or the whole Dennis situation, again I felt mostly entertained and the desire to tease. And it feels good to be honest and in alignment with myself, even if it took some pain and work to get here.

—

Why you shouldn’t fear replacement

What makes me so confident that if I let my feelings grow, they won’t turn towards the expected monogamous script of wanting to replace you? You say that I’m unconventional, different, in so many ways. Can you extend a little bit of hope that in this way, and based off of my recent actions and feelings, I am different too?

You fulfil incredibly important things in my life - you are the exact type of companion that I want to laugh with, travel with, learn with, and live with. In fact, you took me when I was still young and moldable and created parts of me in your image - making us almost an impossible custom fit that no one else can replicate, including Melina or anyone else I might ever meet. I don’t just want you, I think I need you. But I’ve not also paused my own evolution from my own experiences, readings, and thoughts. And you haven’t grown in those same exact directions, much like I haven’t grown in all of yours. And that’s normal, to be expected. I will never stop valuing you for what you bring to me, but I can’t expect you to fulfil every aspect of me (though I did try), and it now feels unrealistic and unfair to expect that from you. For example, if you want to stain a bedsheet with many many stains that are yours alone, I don’t think I have it biologically in me to do that, soz. And if I want someone to discuss science with that doesn’t fall asleep to the sound of my voice, I don’t think you’re the right person either.

I can’t give you the guarantee that you’re always number 1 in all aspects of my life, nor do I think that comparison makes sense. But I can continue to value you for all of the things that you alone bring to my life, and help you feel more seen and valued in those respects. I’m sorry if I haven’t done a good job of doing that so far, and yes, it is a bit more difficult than usual to do it right now, when you need it most. That, unfortunately, just is what it is.

I want to know — what makes you feel special? I want you to feel as valued to me as you are. It’s just more difficult for me if the only thing that makes you feel special is “being above everyone else”.

Yes, we do have friends that we can put above others, like Tree over Phillson, so there are some types of hierarchy even in friendships. But in close friends, does that logic still make sense? Does Tree go above Tiara? Does one deserve more prioritizing than the other? There are things that you would even trust Tree with over me, or that she would trust you with over even Yan - and I don’t think there’s anything inherently wrong with that. I think every close person in our lives should be valued for exactly who they are - how they bring out the better parts of us, and we in them.

I don’t want to replace you. But neither do I want to repress myself into someone I am not to better fill your desires for what your partner should look like, rather than who they are.

My words can’t offer any guarantees that my actions over time can, so I'm hoping you can find a way to trust me. And I know I’m asking for trust on something that I haven’t shown trustworthiness on, that’s my fault. I’ve been selfish. I’ve prioritised what I wanted and progressed at the speed of what I wanted, not what you needed. And this upcoming trip must feel like a giant disregard for that. I understand how it looks and feels. And I feel almost powerless to argue for it in a way that doesn’t feel defensive, because I truly think you would have to be me to get it fully.

So… ok. I understand it’s going to take a lot more than just saying this to make you believe me.

But, a little more context:

Moving forward

Yes, we’ve been having our own problems recently, and that makes the moment feel particularly precarious. But the timing is just unfortunate, not a catalyst. I was already writing extensively to myself in unshared letters that I realize I've been accepting treatment I shouldn't. I’ve been sitting and thinking about it, and I realised something that will sound hurtful: for years, I've felt disrespected, made to feel small and incompetent. I have long-standing resentments I should have addressed earlier. They don't justify my actions, but I need to name them as we decide how to move forward.

In our much earlier years, there was subtle but persistent sexual coercion that still subconsciously affects how I feel about intimacy with you (and sex in general, with anyone, if I’m being fully honest). There was some disconnection when you met Jos and I started feeling like my dedication to our relationship wouldn’t always be reciprocal; that I really wasn’t an equal partner not just in the small things but in some of the big things also. There was fear when you told Joey at Ah Po’s funeral that divorce is not a big deal, and I couldn’t help but hear echoes of our unhappiness in the words and tone you used to describe others. I’ve been building resentment because I've asked you to get therapy for 2-3 years and you haven't followed through, even though you acknowledge the need. I’ve been building resentment because you seem not just unwilling but almost unable to put in the work that I require from you, not just the work you agree you want to do. I don’t think your inaction comes from a malicious place. I think it comes partially from not knowing what to do, partially from exhaustion due to work responsibilities, and partially from laziness where in your little free time you choose recreation over further emotional work. I understand this, and you know I make significant effort to prioritise your free time and your fun, but at this point I have to take a stronger stand.

I need to impose, because for too long my fear of imposing has started to feel more like self-betrayal.

And yet, despite all of this long and hurtful list of past and ongoing negativity... I still actively wanted and want to be with you, every single day. Because you are more than your faults, and what you add to my life clearly and easily overtakes what you cost it. I’m not saying that your faults are shallow. They will require substantial work to overcome. But I’m saying that my love is deeper still, and you are worth it. I see you working on it, and honestly it feels like a glimmer of hope I’d almost given up on. But I still need time to pass and see that this is a change of behavioural patterns, not a crisis-driven response.

There are things that we desperately need to work on together if we want things to improve in the longer-term. I don’t want to impose anything else, but I really think that doing the following things would give us the best path forward. I want us to both commit to regularly doing therapy for ourselves, starting within a month. I’d also like you to keep an open mind and finish ready the Ethical Slut at a reasonable pace so that we can start talking constructively from understanding rather than from pure emotion. I don’t need you to agree with everything the book says, just make a good faith effort at understanding it. And I need us to do couples therapy together also. Can we do that?

I know it’s a substantial amount of effort and money, but at this point, don’t we need it? If not now, then when??

I know I’m asking for a lot from you, so I will also do some concrete things to work on us.

- I’ll also do individual therapy, trying to help me get over my sexual issues, work on my patterns of dishonesty and my tendency towards conflict avoidance that usually just ends up ballooning problems (along with any other patterns you want me to discuss with the therapist and improve on).
- I’ll work to unpack any of my resentments to learn how to deal with them better.
- I’ll look into ways to deal with the erectile disfunction (doctor visit, maybe even pills, not just “hoping”).
- I’ll read any books that you want me to, alone or together, that might help us deal with our problems. I don’t want it to seem like you have to adapt to my way, I just want us to understand each other better.
- I’ll work on tempering my negative moods, and actively work on spending more quality time with you. I think we’ve been problem-focused for a little too long, it would be nice to find ways to be fun-focused again, and not just around sporadic vacations. These last few weeks with you, despite the problems we’re facing, feel more like a life I want to continue living with you, and I know that’s due mostly to your effort. In the future, I’ll take equal part in co-creating it.
- I will try to regularly remember all of the reasons I love you, and show you that you are still a very important part of my life, and a very special person that I have been chosen by.

—

So… what do I want? Definitely not to replace you. I value you. I love you. Not just for what we’ve been but for what we are, and what we still can be together. I love your sense of humour, the unexpected shit that comes out of your mouth that is so deeply incorrect sometimes yet so funny. I love seeing the little cute moments that reveal the intensity of your attachment to me, your vulnerability and concerns, and the trust you show me when making use of my intelligence (whether to proofread a report or listen for a fart). I love to see you push forward for your dreams, to see you deal with the considerable difficulties that life has thrown at you with resilience and courage. I love how strongly you react emotionally to the things that bring you joy, including of course, my actions. I love holding you, intertwining with you, feeling your skin against mine (especially when we are at different temperatures). I love our stupid little inside jokes, the dogboos, don’t-kiss-me-if-you-don’t-love-me moments, and 1-2-3 kisses that I know we will return to performing when things stabilise. Not just because they’re silly and freeing, but because they also speak to the lengths of comfort we’ve found within each other. I love, love, the fact that we still say good morning to each other every night (even if you’ve dropped the “kitty” ending for a while now). I love all the little signs of our daily compatibility- the way I know you just want to squat on Instagram in the corner of the room while I shower, that you’ll never say no to me asking for coffee, that you’ll understand my lying in bed with two floppy hands in the air means I want a hug. I love the way that even if we don’t always have time to talk about our problems, we don’t try to bury them forever.

And so many, countless other things that I can’t think of off the top of my head. I love you and I like you, and I want to keep you in my life for as long as you also want me there,
which I hope is until one of us dies (from old age ideally, so no need to touch wood).

I'm sorry I've been overly critical recently. I think emotional self-regulation, and other skills we can learn in therapy (separately or together) will help us navigate all of our issues better and so is not something to be delayed until “after”. But perhaps I’ve been too heavily critical in pushing for improvements or calling out the insufficiencies over showing appreciation for what we already have. I do appreciate you, truly. And I want to continue waking up next to you for the rest of my life (I will brush my teeth more and figure out something for the snoring so that this becomes more appealing to you too).

I know I’m asking a lot, but can we try? Can we find a way forward where we're both being fully honest about who we are and what we need, even when that's uncomfortable? I don't want to imply that my honesty depends on you accepting this - I owe you honesty regardless. For everything we’ve been and everything we still can be, I hope we’re willing to stick together and witness what this wonderful but chaotic journey of life has in store for us. We will change, but it will be beside each other. Like every time before, the problems are different but our willingness to stay and see things through proved stronger.

In short——

I’ve changed in a fundamental way. I want non-monogamy, including romantic connections. I know this isn't what you signed up for, and I know our relationship has existing issues I haven't fully addressed. I don’t think how I plan to live out my non-monogamy needs to be painful for you, though I also understand your massive and reasonable fear that as an unknown, it might get out of hand. I can do nothing but make the promise that you will always remain my priority. I know i’m asking you to change in a way you don’t want to, and I recognize that's deeply unfair. If you can't or don't want to, I'll accept that means we're no longer compatible, and I'll grieve that enormously. But I won't frame your decision as a failure to evolve or your pain as something you need to overcome. I'll just accept that I've grown in a direction that means we can't continue together, and that's a tragedy we're both facing, not a problem you need to fix.

Whatever your final decision, I’ll honour it. I want you to be the happiest you can be, with or without me. (Though of course I’m leaning towards “with”).

Besides, who else will wash your dishes and buy your chips? I’m not that easily replaceable either, based on my two biggest core strengths.

Yours, with all the weight that words entails,
SK.